#  MESA setup for Stripped Envelope Supernova Progenitor

Developed for the [TARDIS connector workshop 2025](https://kasukabedefenceforce.github.io/tardis-con/2025) at CCA/Flatiron.

The setup template is in <./template_binary>. It computes the evolution
of a 15M<sub>☉</sub> donor star + 12M<sub>☉</sub> point-mass companion through case
B (post donor-main-sequence) fully conservative mass transfer until
carbon core depletion and core-collapse.

Originally developed for [Renzo et al. 2021](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2021ApJ...923..277R/abstract), [2023](https://ui.adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2023ApJ...942L..32R/abstract), ported to MESA
`r24.03.1` or later by [@neevshah101](https://github.com/neevshah101). The post-carbon depletion evolution
(see below) is based on a template inlist provided by [@Debraheem](https://github.com/Debraheem).
These have been iterated upon by trial-and-error until a viable model
runs.

Output files generated by using this setup are saved in the run<sub>outputs</sub> dir for each directory.


# Note on evolution beyond C depletion

At carbon depletion ($X_{center}(^{12}C)_{} <0.01$) the `run_star_extras.f90`
reads a `star_job` and `controls` from an whose path is **hard coded**, [inlist<sub>to</sub><sub>cc</sub>](./template_binary/inlist_to_cc).

This allows to switch "on-the-fly" some options to make the star reach
the onset of core collapse.

The `binary_template` with a small network (22 isotopes, on the `main` branch) takes &sim;5000
steps to reach carbon depletion and 3000-5000 additional step to reach core-collapse with MESA `r24.08.1`.

As usual, most computing time is spent post-carbon depletion. This
model uses velocity drag in the envelope post-carbon depletion to successfully go
to core-collapse without spurious envelope velocities from steepening waves. It also uses
`op_split = .true.` for T&ge;4&times;10<sup>9</sup> K.


# TODO

-   test it reaches onset of core-collapse with MESA `r24.08.1`
    -   [X] 22 iso network
    -   [ ] large network (work in progress in separate folder/branches)
-   [X] check CPUh cost: &sim; 3-4h on 12 cores
-   [ ] trim output for I/O speedup
